Docs 37 release new dashboard functionality 13237 (#13502)
metabase/metabase: docs/users-guide/interactive-dashboards.md

## Interactive dashboards

You can customize what happens when people click on questions in your dashboard.

By default, when you create charts using Metabase's graphical query builder, your charts automatically come with [drill-through capabilities](https://www.metabase.com/blog/drilling-through-data/index.html), which let folks click on a chart to explore further. But if you have a more customized click path in mind, Metabase allows you to customize what happens when a user clicks on a chart or table in your dashboard.

You can set up a dashboard card to:

- Send the user to a custom destination: a dashboard, question, or custom URL.

> - Update a dashboard filter (see [use a chart to filter a dashboard](#Use-a-chart-to-filter-a-dashboard)).

Reviewer: Seems like either both of these bullets should have anchor links to their respective subsections, or neither of them should.

To configure this interactivity, you'll use the **click behavior** option on a dashboard card to slide out the click behavior.

### Customizing click behavior

From your dashboard, click on the **pencil** icon to enter dashboard edit mode. Hover over the card containing the question you want to customize. Metabase will display a menu at the top right of the card. Select the **Click behavior** option (the icon with the mouse cursor clicking on a card).

![Click behavior icon](images/interactive-dashboards/click-behavior-icon.png)

> Metabase will slide out the **Click behavior sidebar**. For questions composed using the query builder, you can select from 3 options:

Reviewer: Stylistc preference, but I want to say the Chicago Manual of Style recommends spelling out numbers that are less than 10.

```suggestion
Metabase will slide out the **Click behavior sidebar**. For questions composed using the query builder, you can select from three options:
```

- Open the Metabase action menu.
- Go to a custom destination.

> - Update a dashboard filter (if the dashboard has a filter)

Reviewer: Either needs a period or the other two should lose the periods.

### Custom destinations

You can set custom destinations for all questions, including SQL questions.

![Custom destinations](images/interactive-dashboards/custom-destination.png)

Possible destinations include:

- Dashboards
- Saved questions
- URLs

### Passing values to the destination

If you're linking to a dashboard or a SQL question that has filters, you can pass values from the current dashboard to filters in the destination. 

For example, if you link to a dashboard that has a filter for `Category`, you can pass a value for `Category` from the origin question to the destination dashboard:

![Pass value to dashboard](images/interactive-dashboards/pass-value.png)

Once you select a column, the sidebar will display the column used to pass the value, as well as the target filter at the destination that Metabase will pass the value to.

![Pass category to filter](images/interactive-dashboards/pass-category-to-filter.png)

In the example above, when a user clicks on the **Orders by product category** card, Metabase will pass the clicked `Category` to the destination dashboard ("Interactive Dashboard"), which will then filter its cards by that `Category`.

> You can also send the currently selected value of a dashboard filter on the current dashboard to the destination. And if you're using [Metabase Enterprise Edition](https://www.metabase.com/enterprise/scale/index.html), you can pass a user attribute provided by SSO to the destination, too. Those user attributes will show up as options when you click on one of the destination's filters ( provided the values are compatible with that filter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also send the currently selected value of a dashboard filter on the current dashboard to the destination. And if you're using [Metabase Enterprise Edition](https://www.metabase.com/enterprise/scale/index.html), you can pass a user attribute provided by SSO to the destination, too. Those user attributes will show up as options when you click on one of the destination's filters (provided the values are compatible with that filter).
```

> When displaying questions as tables, you can select different click behaviors for different columns in the table. You can also modify the contents of the cells in a given column, replacing the value with custom text. For example, if you had a column that listed categories, you could change the text in the cell to read: "Click for details about {{Category}}".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When displaying questions as tables, you can select different click behaviors for different columns in the table. You can also modify the contents of the cells in a given column, replacing the value with custom text. For example, if you had a column that listed categories, you could change the text in the cell to read: "Click for details about {{Category}}", where `Category` is the name of your column.
```

You can also use values to construct URLs to external resources.

![Enter a URL](images/interactive-dashboards/enter-a-url.png)

> From the **Click behavior** sidebar, select **Go to a custom destination** and link to **URL**. The **Enter a URL to link to** modal will pop up, allowing you to specify a URL, as well as specify the value of a column or dashboard filter. Click on the dropdown menu **Values you can reference** to see your options.

Reviewer: Feels like we could give an example URL here since the syntax to pass values is a little tricky, especially when passing multiple values. The old EE doc, `enterprise-guide/customizing-drill-through.html`, has some examples that we could lift.

Author: That's a good call. I was relying on the screenshot, but I should reinforce in the text.

### Use a chart to filter a dashboard

If your dashboard contains at least one filter, you can set things up so that clicking on a chart in the dashboard will update a filter.

When a user clicks on, say, a bar in a bar chart, you could send the value of the clicked bar to the filter, and update cards across the dashboard. We call this functionality **cross-filtering**. You can use this cross-filtering to make a chart behave as kind of "navigation question" that filters data across other cards.

For example, clicking on the `Widget` bar will update the current dashboard's **category** filter to filter for `Widget`:

![Cross-filtering](images/interactive-dashboards/cross-filter.png)

> To set up cross-filtering, choose a dashboard filter that you'd like to update on click, and a question to use to update that filter. You can think of this question as your "navigation question". Instead of wiring this navigation question up to the filter, you'll [wire up every other question on the dashboard to the filter](08-dashboard-filters.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up cross-filtering, choose a dashboard filter that you'd like to update on click, and a question to use to update that filter. You can think of this question as your "navigation question." Instead of wiring this navigation question up to the filter, you'll [wire up every other question on the dashboard to the filter](08-dashboard-filters.md). 
```

Below, we'll use the **Orders by product category question** as our navigation question, so we'll leave this question disconnected from the filter, and connect all the other questions to the **Category** filter.

![Wiring up filter](images/interactive-dashboards/wiring-up-filter.png)

With your filter wired up, stay in dashboard edit mode, and hover over the question you want to use as your navigation question to filter the dashboard. Click on the **click behavior** icon, then select the **Update a dashboard filter**.

> Metabase will list the available filters to update below. Here we select the **Category** filter, and supply the value to that filter from the question's `Product -> Category` column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metabase will list the filters you can update. Here we select the **Category** filter, and supply the value to that filter from the question's `Product -> Category` column.
```

![Update a dashboard filter](images/interactive-dashboards/update-a-dashboard-filter.png)

Click **Done** in the sidebar, then **Save** your dashboard. 

> Now we can use our navigation question (Orders by product category) to interactively filter the data across your dashboard. When people click on a value in the navigation question, Metabase will send the clicked value to the filter, and update every card on the dashboard by filtering them for the clicked value - every card except for the navigation question: Orders by product category. The reason we don't want the navigation question to update is so that we can select a different category to filter the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can use our navigation question (Orders by product category) to interactively filter the data across your dashboard. When people click on a value in the navigation question, Metabase will send the clicked value to the filter, and update every card on the dashboard by filtering them for the clicked value - every card except for the navigation question: Orders by product category. The reason we don't want the navigation question to be filtered is to make sure all of the bars remain present, so that we can click on a different one to select it instead.
```

When displaying questions as tables, you can select different click behaviors for different columns in the table. You can also modify the contents of the cells in a given column, replacing the value with custom text. For example, if you had a column that listed categories, you could change the text in the cell to read: "Click for details about {% raw %}{{Category}}{% endraw %}", where `Category` is the name of your column.

You can also use values to construct URLs to external resources.

![Enter a URL](images/interactive-dashboards/enter-a-url.png)

From the **Click behavior** sidebar, select **Go to a custom destination** and link to **URL**. The **Enter a URL to link to** modal will pop up, allowing you to specify a URL, as well as a column or dashboard filter.

What we need to do here is to type in the full URL of where a user should go when they click on a value in a card. But the really powerful thing we can do is to include variables in the URL. These variables will insert the value that the user clicks on into the URL. 

For example, we could type a URL like this:

 ```
 https://www.metabase.com/search.html?query={% raw %}{{Category}}{% endraw %}
 ```
 

>  The important part is the `{% raw %}{{Category}}{% endraw %}` bit. What we’re doing here is referring to the `Category` that the user clicked on. So if a user clicks on the `Widget` bar in our chart, the value of the `Category` column for that bar (`Widget`) would be inserted into our URL: `https://www.metabase.com/search.html?query=Widget`. Your URL can use as many column variables you want - you can even refer to the same column multiple times in different parts of the URL. Click on the dropdown menu **Values you can reference** to see your options for which variables you can include in the URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The important part is the `{% raw %}{{Category}}{% endraw %}` bit. What we’re doing here is referring to the `Category` that the user clicked on. So if a user clicks on the `Widget` bar in our chart, the value of the `Category` column for that bar (`Widget`) would be inserted into our URL: `https://www.metabase.com/search.html?query=Widget`. Your URL can use as many column variables as you want - you can even refer to the same column multiple times in different parts of the URL. Click on the dropdown menu **Values you can reference** to see your options for which variables you can include in the URL.
```

## Interactive dashboards

> You can customize what happens when people click on questions in your dashboard. You can set up a question to:

Reviewer: Feels like this needs more of a lead-in. Maybe we should set the context by referencing what Metabase does by default on-click — i.e., we could link to the drill-through documentation.

E.g., "By default, when you create charts using Metabase's graphical query builder, your charts automatically come with drill-through capabilities, which let folks click on a chart to explore further. But if you have a more customized click path in mind, Metabase also allows you to customize what happens when a chart or table in a dashboard is clicked. You can set up a dashboard card to:"

- Open the Metabase action menu.
- Go to a custom destination.
- Update a dashboard filter (if the dashboard has a filter)

SQL questions will only have the option to **Go to a custom destination**, and **Update a dashboard filter**, as the action menu (which allows users to drill through the data) is only available to questions composed with the query builder.

If your dashboard has a filter, you'll also see an option to update the filter (see [cross-filtering](#cross---filtering) below).

![Click behavior menu](images/interactive-dashboards/click-behavior-menu.png)

### Open the action menu

For questions composed using the query builder, the default click behavior is to open the **action menu**, which presents people with the option to [drill through the data](https://www.metabase.com/blog/drilling-through-data/index.html):

![Action menu](images/interactive-dashboards/action-menu.png)

### Custom destinations

You can set custom destinations for all questions, including SQL questions. 

![Custom destinations](images/interactive-dashboards/custom-destination.png)

Possible destinations include:

- Dashboards
- Saved questions
- URLs

> You can also pass a value to that destination from the clicked card. For example, if you link to a dashboard that has a filter for category, you can pass a value for category from the origin question to the destination dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're linking to a dashboard or a SQL question that has filters, you can also pass values from the current dashboard to the filters in the destination. For example, if you link to a dashboard that has a filter for category, you can pass a value for category from the origin question to the destination dashboard:
```

![Pass value to dashboard](images/interactive-dashboards/pass-value.png)

> Once you select a column, Metabase will display the column used to pass the value, as well as the filter the value will be passed to at the destination dashboard.

Reviewer: We should also find a way to work in the fact that you can also send the currently selected value of a dashboard filter on the current dashboard. And if you're using EE, you can pass a user attribute provided by SSO to the destination, too. Those values will show up as options when you click on one of the destination's filters, provided the values are compatible with that filter.

![Pass category to filter](images/interactive-dashboards/pass-category-to-filter.png)

In the example above, when a user clicks on the **Orders by product category** card, Metabase will pass the clicked category to the destination dashboard, which will then filter its cards by that category.

> When displaying questions as tables, you can select different click behaviors for different columns in the table.

Reviewer: One detail here is you can also modify the actual contents of the cells in a given column and reference values in the text, like `Click for details about {{Category}}`

You can also use values to construct URLs to external resources.

![Enter a URL](images/interactive-dashboards/enter-a-url.png)

From the **Click behavior** sidebar, select **Go to a custom destination** and link to **URL**. The **Enter a URL to link to** modal will pop up, allowing you to specify a URL, as well as specify the value of a column or dashboard filter. Click on the dropdown menu **Values you can reference** to see your options.

### Cross-filtering a dashboard

> If your dashboard contains a filter, you can use a chart to update the value supplied to that filter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your dashboard contains at least one filter, you can set things up so that clicking on a chart in the dashboard will update a filter. 
```
